What are MSE and RMSE?

Explain DBSCAN algorithm?

What are dummy variables?

What is anomaly detection?

What is Bayesian inference?

What is the R-Suared value?

What about ordinal features?

Loss functions in regression?

What are Recommender Systems?

Undersampling vs Oversampling?

What is reinforcement learning?

Do we call Knn a lazy algorithm?

Define a Monte Carlo simulation?

Does Kmeans and Kmeans++ is same?

What is pruning in Decision Tree?

How does an XGB control overfitting?

What is the class imbalance problem?

Why is lightGBM prone to overfitting?

Name any one distance based algorithm?

What is the objective function for Knn?

What is the standard error of the mean?

What are some disadvantages of K-means?

What is data augmentation? Give examples.

What is Euclidean and Manhatten distance?

What is the role of gamma in RBF kernels?

How would you handle an imbalanced dataset?

Is it a good idea to combine multiple trees?

How do support vector machine algorithms work?

What is the significance of Residual Networks?

What does it mean to have low MAE and high MSE?

What are the disadvantages of linear regression?

What is a recommendation engine? How does it work?

What is K-means? How can you select K for K-means?

Does Radial basis kernel function is there in SVM?

What is linear regression? Why is it called linear?

Is pruning always a good method to construct a tree?

What is the difference between bagging and boosting?

Which algorithm uses margin to classify the classes?

What algorithm can be used to summarize twitter feed?

How do you generate arbitrary or random shape clusters?

How to compute standard error of median in a simple way?

How does GBDTs decide to split a node? What does it minimize?

What is the difference between R-suare and Adjusted R-suare?

How is matrix factorization useful in recommendation systems?

What are the approximation methods in Reinforcement Learning?

What is the difference between an error and a residual error?

Why does training an SVM takes a long time? How can I speed up?

Difference between bagging, boosting, and the relation to bayes theorem?

Which algorithm takes the data to the next dimension and then classify?

What are categorical variables and what do we do with categorical variables?

What is padding?

Sigmoid Vs Softmax?

What is PoS Tagging?

What is tokenization?

What is topic modeling?

What is back propagation?

What is the idea behind GANs?

What is the Computational Graph?

What is sigmoid? What does it do?

What is Named-Entity Recognition?

Explain the masked language model?

How do you preprocess text in NLP?

How do you extract features in NLP?

How is wordvec different from Glove?

What Are the Different Layers on CNN?

What makes CNNs translation invariant?

How is fastText different from wordvec?

Explain Generative Adversarial Network?

What is backward and forward propagation?

What are Syntactic and Semantic Analysis?

What is a local optimum? What is a local optimum?

Explain gates used in LSTM with their functions?

What is ReLU? How is it better than sigmoid or tanh?

What is transfer learning? have you used it before?

What is multi-task learning? When should it be used?

Difference between convex and non-convex cost function?

Why do we remove stop words? When do we not remove them?

Explain the difference between an epoch, a batch, and an iteration?

What is the difference between NLP and NLU?

For online learning, which one would you prefer: SGD or Adagrad and why?

What Is a Multi-layer Perceptron MLP?

Is it always bad to have local optima? Is it always bad to have local optima?

In node2vec, what does embedding represent: topological similarity or nearness?

What do you understand by Boltzmann Machine and Restricted Boltzmann Machines?

How to compute an inverse matrix faster by playing around with some computational tricks?

For infrequent/rare words, which among CBOW and SkipGram should be used for wordvec training?

What is pooling in CNN? Why do we need it?

Describe the structure of Artificial Neural Networks & RNN(recurrent neural network)?

How to Select a Batch Size? Will selecting a batch size produce better or worse results?

What are N-grams? How can we use them?

How large should be N for our bag of words when using N-grams?

How can you use neural nets for text classification and computer vision?

Do gradient descent methods always converge at the same point?

What is gradient descent? How does it work?

What are autoencoders? Explain the different layers of autoencoders and mention three practical usages of them.

What is vanishing gradient descent?

difference between Vanishing gradient Vs Exploding gradient?

How to handle dying node problems in case of ReLU activation function?

What is the use of the leaky ReLU function?

What are the different Deep Learning Frameworks?

What is the difference between machine learning and deep learning?

What is a dropout layer and how does it help a neural network?

Explain why dropout in a neural network acts as a regularizer?

How to know whether your model is suffering from the problem of Exploding Gradients?

How to handle exploding gradient problem?

How Does an LSTM Network Work?

What problem does Bi-LSTM solve instead of only LSTM?

What is the difference between LSTM and GRU?

What happens to the predictions of a CNN if an image is rotated?

How does CNN help in translation and rotation invariance of images?

Define Term Freuency & Inverse Document Freuency Tf-idf and how to use it for converting text to vector?

What are three primary convolutional neural network layers How are they commonly put together?

Describe the architecture of a typical Convolutional Neural Network?

What do you mean by Dropout and Batch Normalization, When and why use?

What is the difference between online and batch learning?

Is dropout used on the test set?

What is an activation function and discuss the use of an activation function?

Explain three different types of activation functions?

What is the range of activation functions?

Why is Rectified Linear Unit a good activation function?

Why don't we use the Relu activation function in the output layer?

What can go wrong if we use a linear activation instead of ReLU?

Give examples in which a many-to-one RNN architecture is appropriate, Give examples in which a many-to-one RNN architecture is appropriate?

What is RNN and How does an RNN work?

Why Sigmoid or Tanh is not preferred to be used as the activation function in the hidden layer of the neural network?

difference between various Activation functions such as Sigmoid , tanh, Softmax, ReLU, Leaky ReLU?

Why Tanh activation function preferred over sigmoid?

What are word embeddings Why are they useful?

what is WordVec?

What are some advantages of using character embeddings instead of word embeddings?

How do you get sentence meanings from word embeddings, considering the position of words in the sentence?

Would you prefer gradient boosting trees model or logistic regression when doing text classification with bag of words?

What is bag of words How we can use it for text vectorization?

What are the advantages and disadvantages of bag of words?

What is the main difference between Adam and SGD?

What are the advantages and disadvantages of SGD over gradient descent?

What is the difference between stochastic gradient descent SGD and gradient descent GD, Batch gradient descent, Stochastic gradient descent, Mini-batch gradient descent , what are the pros and cons for each of them?

When would you use GD over SDG and vice-versa?

How would you choose the number of filters and the filter size at each CNN layer?

How can we use CNN for text classification?

What are some advantages in using a CNN (convolutional neural network rather than a DNN (dense neural network in an image classification task?

Describe two ways to visualize features of a CNN in an image classification task?

Why do segmentation CNNs typically have an encoder-decoder style / structure?

What is a convolutional layer & Why do we actually need convolutions Can we use fully-connected layers for that?

What are the advantages of parameter sharing in case of convolution?

Why do we use convolutions for images rather than just Fully Connected layers?

Why would you use many small convolutional kernels such as x rather than a few large onesWhy would you use many small convolutional kernels such as x rather than a few large ones?

Why we generally use Softmax non-linearity function as the last operation in-network?

How does BatchNormalization differ in training and inferencing?

How does batch size affect training of neural networks?

When using mini batch gradient descent, why is it important to shuffle the data?

Give a simple mathematical argument why a mini-batch version of such ML algorithm might be computationally more efficient than a training with full data set?

On a simplified and fundamental scale what makes the newly developed BERT model better than traditional NLP models?

How would you initialize weights in a neural network?

Why weights are initialized with small random numbers in a neural network What happens when weights are all or constant values?

Suppose you have a NN with layers and ReLU activations What will happen if we initialize all the weights with the same value?

What is backpropagation How does it work Why do we need it?

Why large filter sizes in early layers can be a bad choice How to choose filter size?

which one is more powerful a layer decision tree or a -layer neural network without any activation function --> Hint non-linearity?

Both decision trees and deep neural networks are non-linear classifier ie they separates the space by complicated decision boundary Why then it is so much easier for us to intuitively follow a decision tree model vs a deep neural network?

If you could take advantage of multiple CPU cores would you prefer a boosted-tree algorithm over a random forest?

Tell me about yourself?

What are your greatest strengths?

What are your greatest weaknesses?

Tell me about something you did – or failed to do – that you now feel a little ashamed of?

Why are you leaving (or did you leave) this position?

The “Silent Treatment”?

Why should I hire you?

Aren’t you overqualified for this position?

Where do you see yourself five years from now?

Describe your ideal company, location, and job?

Why do you want to work at our company?

What are your career options right now?

Why have you been out of work so long?

Tell me honestly about the strong points and weak points of your boss (company, management team, etc.)...

What good books have you read lately?

Tell me about a situation when your work was criticized?

What are your outside interests?

The “Fatal Flaw” question?

How do you feel about reporting to a younger person (minority, woman, etc)?

On confidential matters...

Would you lie for the company?

Looking back, what would you do differently in your life?

Could you have done better in your last job?

Can you work under pressure?

What makes you angry?

Why aren’t you earning more money at this stage of your career?

Who has inspired you in your life and why?

What was the toughest decision you ever had to make?

Tell me about the most boring job you’ve ever had?

Have you been absent from work more than a few days in any previous position?

What changes would you make if you came on board?

I’m concerned that you don’t have as much experience as we’d like in...

How do you feel about working nights and weekends?

Are you willing to relocate or travel?

Do you have the stomach to fire people? Have you had experience firing many people?

Why have you had so many jobs?

What do you see as the proper role/mission of... a good (job title you’re seeking); a good manager; an executive in serving the community; a leading company in our industry; etc?

What would you say to your boss if he’s crazy about an idea, but you think it stinks?

How could you have improved your career progress?

What would you do if a fellow executive on your own corporate level wasn’t pulling his/her weight...and this was hurting your department?

You’ve been with your firm a long time. Won’t it be hard switching to a new company?

May I contact your present employer for a reference?

Give me an example of your creativity (analytical skill...managing ability, etc.)

Where could you use some improvement?

What do you worry about?

How many hours a week do you normally work?

What’s the most difficult part of being a (job title)?

The “Hypothetical Problem”?

What was the toughest challenge you’ve ever faced?

Have you considered starting your own business?

What are your goals?

What do you look for when you hire people?

Sell me this stapler...(this pencil...this clock...or some other object on the interviewer’s desk)?

“The Salary Question” – How much money do you want?

The Illegal Question?

The “Secret” Illegal Question?

What was the toughest part of your last job?

How do you define success...and how do you measure up to your own definition?

“The Opinion Question” – What do you think about ...Abortion...The President...The Death Penalty...(or any other controversial subject)?

If you won a $10 million lottery, would you still work?

Looking back on your last position, have you done your best work?

Why should I hire you from the outside when I could promote someone from within?

Tell me something negative you’ve heard about our company?

On a scale of one to ten, rate me as an interviewer?
